.I 1
18 Editions of the Dewey Decimal Classifications
   The present study is a history of the DEWEY Decimal
Classification.  The first edition of the DDC was published
in 1876, the eighteenth edition in 1971, and future editions
will continue to appear as needed.  In spite of the DDC's
long and healthy life, however, its full story has never
been told.  There have been biographies of Dewey
that briefly describe his system, but this is the first
attempt to provide a detailed history of the work that
more than any other has spurred the growth of
librarianship in this country and abroad.
.I 2
Use Made of Technical Libraries
This report is an analysis of 6300 acts of use
in 104 technical libraries in the United Kingdom.
Library use is only one aspect of the wider pattern of
information use.  Information transfer in libraries is
restricted to the use of documents.  It takes no
account of documents used outside the library, still
less of information transferred orally from person
to person.  The library acts as a channel in only a
proportion of the situations in which information is
transferred.
Taking technical information transfer as a whole,
there is no doubt that this proportion is not the
major one.  There are users of technical information -
particularly in technology rather than science -
who visit libraries rarely if at all, relying on desk
collections of handbooks, current periodicals and personal
contact with their colleagues and with people in other
organizations.  Even regular library users also receive
information in other ways.
.I 3
Two Kinds of Power
An Essay on Bibliographic Control
    The relationships between the organization and control of writings
and the organization and control of knowledge and information will
inevitably enter our story, for writings contain, along with much else, a
great deal of mankind's stock of knowledge and information.  Bibliographical
control is a form of power, and if knowledge itself is a form of power,
as the familiar slogan claims, bibliographical control is in a certain sense
power over power, power to obtain the knowledge recorded in written
form.  As writings are not simply, and not in any simple way, storehouses of
knowledge, we cannot satisfactorily discuss bibliographical control as
simply control over the knowledge and information contained in writings.
.I 4
Systems Analysis of a University Library; 
final report and research project
    The establishment of nine new universities in the 1960's provoked a highly 
stimulating re-examination of the nature, purpose and management of academic
libraries.  Long-established attitudes and methods were questioned, but
although changes were made, the basic difficulty remained - a lack of objective
information about the best ways of providing a library service in a university.
The report of the UGC Committee on Libraries (the Parry Repot [267]), which,
in general, endorsed these changes, also stressed the need for research into
all aspects of academic library provision.
.I 5
A Library Management Game:
a report on a research project
    Although the use of games in professional education has
become widespread only during the last decade, the method has
been used in a number of fields for many hundreds of years.
Its origins have been traced to simple war games, used in
military training when the "real thing" was either unavailable
or too dangerous.  In more recent times, these games have
become more and more sophisticated, and many now use large
electronic computers to handle the complex calculations involved.
Since 1956, when the first well-developed management game was
introduced, the technique has spread rapidly into a wide variety
of disciplines and today it is used at all levels of education,
from primary school classes to courses for experienced professional
men and women.  One of the main causes of this "game explosion"
has been the rapid development of sophisticated management
techniques, such as simulation and mathematical modelling, which
have been made possible by rapid advances in computer technology.
.I 6
Abstracting Concepts and Methods
     Graduate library school study of abstracting should be more than a 
how-to-do-it course.
It should include general material on the characteristcs and types of abstracts,
the historical development of abstracting publications, the abstract-publishing
industry (especially in the United States), and the need for standards in the
preparation and evaluation of the product.
These topics we call concepts.
     The text includes a methods section containing instructions for writing
various types of abstracts, and for editing and preparing abstracting publications.
These detailed instructions are supplemented by examples and exercises in the
appendix.
There is a brief discussion of indexing of abstract publications.
     Research on automation has been treated extensively in this work, for we
believe that the topic deserves greater emphasis than it has received in the
past.
Computer use is becoming increasingly important in all aspects of librarianship.
Much research effort has been expended on the preparation and evaluation of
computer-prepared abstracts and extracts.
Students, librarians, and abstractors will benefit from knowing about this
research and understanding how computer programs were researched to analyze text,
select key sentences, and prepare extracts and abstracts.
The benefits of this research are discussed.
    Abstracting is a key segment of the information industry.
Opportunities are available for both full-time professionals and part-time or
volunteer workers.
Many librarians find such activities pleasant and rewarding, for they know
they are contributing to the more effective use of stored information.
One chapter is devoted to career opportunities for abstractors.
.I 7
Academic Library Buildings
A Guide to Architectural Issues and Solutions
This book attempts to present representative examples of successful
architectural solutions to the important problems librarians and
architects face in planning new college and university library
buildings or in remodeling and enlarging existing structures.  It does
not attempt to make case study evaluations, as was done by
Ellsworth Mason for Brown and Yale.  Nor does it present examples
of unsuccessful solutions except to show how to avoid mistakes,
and in these cases the libraries will not be identified.
.I 8
The Academic Library Essays in Honor of Guy R. Lyle
     As important for staff members' individual development
as was the apprenticeship in administration, perhaps the most
significant attitude one acquired while working for
Guy was engendered by his insistence that librarians must
be interested in and knowledgeable about the content of the
materials with which they dealt.  His love of literature, his
respect for scholarship, his admiration for good writing and
reading were manifested in many ways, but most notably in
his admonition that, though we were primarily a research
library, we must constantly keep in mind our obligation to
collect contemporary poetry, fiction and belles-letters.  It
was primarily up to the library staff, he felt, to be
responsible for these as well as for "general" books which crossed
disciplinary lines or fell between the disciplines, those books
which a faculty mostly concerned with research materials is
apt to overlook.  And in building this portion of the collection,
"there is no substitute for a thorough acquaintance with
books through a reading of critical reviews and the books
themselves."  This counsel is from The President, the Professor,
and the College Library, but the importance of its thrust--the
need to keep up with the world of books and publishing--was
continually impressed upon us.
.I 9
Access to Libraries in College
     This study assumed that an additional use study held
less promise than an analytical consideration of concepts.
The basic approach was a survey comparing traditional and
current professional ideas on direct access.  Principal data-gathering
instruments were documentary analysis and opinion questionnaire.
     Findings of the documentary analysis included the following:
     Research from 1890 to 1970 on the direct shelf approach
and browsing left the problems largely unresolved and
evidently resistant to established methods of use and user
research.  The need for an exhaustive study of concepts was
confirmed.
     Open shelf libraries--organized through shelf classification
and relative location--were meant to arouse the intellectual,
social, and political interest of the average citizen and affect
his democratic self-realization.
     Definitions of "browsing" varied greatly: self-indulgence
by the untutored in objectionable works; beneficial self-education
for the general reader; valuable guidance for the scholar in his
research.
.I 10
Access to Periodical Resources
          The purpose of this study was to develop, evaluate,
and recommend a national plan  for improving access to periodical
resources.  About 48 percent of all academic interlibrary loans
are for periodical materials, with the bulk of the loans being
satisfied in the form of photocopies.  A major consideration in
the long-range improvement of the interlibrary loan system is
the possible augmentation with a national system for acquiring,
storing, and satisfying loan requests for periodical materials.
          This study focused on the physical access to the
periodical literature.  Based on the needs of the library community,
design features were developed, and included the following:
          Service should be made available to all users
          without any restriction other than access
          through a library.
          Initially, the service should be confined primarily
          to rapid, dependable delivery of photocopies of
          journal articles.
          The collection of a center should be comprehensive
          in subject coverage excluding only medicine.
          All worthwhile journals should be collected
          irrespective of language.
